README.md, before:

# Internal Tool Template

A starter kit for building secure internal tools. This template provides a solid foundation with a database, authentication, authorization, and a pre-built admin panel, allowing you to get up and running in minutes.

The core stack is built on the generous free tiers from Neon, Stack, and Vercel, making it ideal for new projects, startups, and internal applications without worrying about infrastructure costs.

![walkthrough of the template](/docs/template.gif)

## Features

-   **Secure Authentication:** Out-of-the-box support for social (Google, GitHub) and passwordless email login powered by [Stack](https://www.stackframe.co/)/[Neon Auth](https://neon.tech/docs/guides/neon-auth).
-   **Email-Based Access Control:** Secure your application by defining which users are allowed access.
    -   **Whitelist by Domain:** Allow sign-ups from your company's domain.
    -   **Whitelist by Email:** Manually grant access to external users.
    -   **Blacklist by Email:** Explicitly deny access to specific accounts.
-   **Pre-built Admin Panel:** A ready-to-use dashboard at `/tools/admin` for managing users and their access permissions.

    ![admin page of the template](/docs/admin-page.png)

## Tech Stack

-   **Framework:** [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/)
-   **Styling:** [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/) & [shadcn/ui](https://ui.shadcn.com/)
-   **Language:** [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
-   **Database:** [Neon](https://neon.tech/) Serverless Postgres
-   **ORM:** [Drizzle ORM](https://orm.drizzle.team/)
-   **Authentication:** [Stack Auth](https://www.stackframe.co/)

## Getting Started Locally

### 1. Clone the Repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/sam-harri/internal_tooling_neon_stack.git
```

### 2. Install Dependencies

```bash
npm install
```

### 3. Set Up Environment Variables

First, copy the example environment file `.env.example` to a local `.env` and fill in the values.

To fill these in, get a connection string for a Neon database in the [console](https://console.neon.tech/app/projects/)
You'll also want to register an account on [Stack Auth](https://stack-auth.com/), and copy the keys from the dashboard, 

| Variable               | Description                                                                  |
| ---------------------- | -----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `DATABASE_URL`         | Your Neon database connection string. Found in your Neon project dashboard.  |
| `STACK_PROJECT_ID`     | Your Stack Auth project ID. Found in the Stack dashboard.                    |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_STACK_KEY`| Your public key for Stack Auth. Found in the Stack dashboard.                |
| `STACK_SECRET_KEY`     | Your secret key for Stack Auth. Found in the Stack dashboard.                |

### 4. Push Database Schema

This command will sync your Drizzle schema with your Neon database.

```bash
npx drizzle-kit migrate
```

### 5. Create Project Permissions

Head over to Auth tab in the Neon and claim the project with your Stack Auth account.   
1. Log in to the Neon Console at console.neon.tech.
2. Navigate to your Project: Select the specific project you want to claim.
3. Access the Auth Settings: In the project's dashboard sidebar, click on the Auth tab, then select the Configuration tab.
4. Initiate the Claim Process: Look for a section titled Claim project (or similar) and click the associated button or link, such as Claim project or Transfer ownership.
5. Follow the Prompts: Neon will prompt you to select the Stack Auth account that will receive ownership of the project. Follow the on-screen instructions to complete the transfer.
6. Verify in Stack Auth Dashboard: After claiming, you will have direct access to manage your project in the Stack Auth dashboard

Transfer project button is here https://console.neon.tech/app/projects/square-waterfall-33326737/settings
By API: https://api-docs.neon.tech/reference/transferneonauthproviderproject


From there, create 2 new project roles, `admin` and `user`, where `user` is contained within `admin`.

1. Navigate to the Neon Console: Log in to your Neon Console.
2. Select a Project: Choose the project you want to manage.
3. Select Branch: In the sidebar, select Branches, then select the specific branch where you want to create the role.
4. Add Role: Go to the Roles & Databases tab and click Add role.
5. Name the Role: Specify a name for the new role in the modal window.
6. Create Role: Click Create. Neon will generate a password for the role; be sure to copy and save this password securely, as it is only shown once.
7. 


### 6. Run the Development Server

```bash
npm run dev
```

The application will be available at `http://localhost:3000`

Since you're the first user ever of that project, head over to `http://localhost:3000/setup` after signing in to claim your admin priviliges.

## Deploying to Vercel

### Create Vercel Project

Add your newly created repo as a Vercel project, copy over all the values from your `.env` into the envinronment variables section, and deploy your app.

### Update Stack Auth domains

For the Stack Auth to work outside of localhost, add the domain Vercel gave you to the trusted domains in the `Domains` section of Stack dashboard.

And you're done. You have a hosted and secured internal tool dashboard and a Postgres database completly for free now!

Commit message:

Update README with project claiming instructions
Added a link to an article on claiming projects and clarified the transfer process.

README.md, after:

# Internal Tool Template

A starter kit for building secure internal tools. This template provides a solid foundation with a database, authentication, authorization, and a pre-built admin panel, allowing you to get up and running in minutes.

The core stack is built on the generous free tiers from Neon, Stack, and Vercel, making it ideal for new projects, startups, and internal applications without worrying about infrastructure costs.

![walkthrough of the template](/docs/template.gif)

## Features

-   **Secure Authentication:** Out-of-the-box support for social (Google, GitHub) and passwordless email login powered by [Stack](https://www.stackframe.co/)/[Neon Auth](https://neon.tech/docs/guides/neon-auth).
-   **Email-Based Access Control:** Secure your application by defining which users are allowed access.
    -   **Whitelist by Domain:** Allow sign-ups from your company's domain.
    -   **Whitelist by Email:** Manually grant access to external users.
    -   **Blacklist by Email:** Explicitly deny access to specific accounts.
-   **Pre-built Admin Panel:** A ready-to-use dashboard at `/tools/admin` for managing users and their access permissions.

    ![admin page of the template](/docs/admin-page.png)

## Tech Stack

-   **Framework:** [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/)
-   **Styling:** [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/) & [shadcn/ui](https://ui.shadcn.com/)
-   **Language:** [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
-   **Database:** [Neon](https://neon.tech/) Serverless Postgres
-   **ORM:** [Drizzle ORM](https://orm.drizzle.team/)
-   **Authentication:** [Stack Auth](https://www.stackframe.co/)

## Getting Started Locally

### 1. Clone the Repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/sam-harri/internal_tooling_neon_stack.git
```

### 2. Install Dependencies

```bash
npm install
```

### 3. Set Up Environment Variables

First, copy the example environment file `.env.example` to a local `.env` and fill in the values.

To fill these in, get a connection string for a Neon database in the [console](https://console.neon.tech/app/projects/)
You'll also want to register an account on [Stack Auth](https://stack-auth.com/), and copy the keys from the dashboard, 

| Variable               | Description                                                                  |
| ---------------------- | -----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `DATABASE_URL`         | Your Neon database connection string. Found in your Neon project dashboard.  |
| `STACK_PROJECT_ID`     | Your Stack Auth project ID. Found in the Stack dashboard.                    |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_STACK_KEY`| Your public key for Stack Auth. Found in the Stack dashboard.                |
| `STACK_SECRET_KEY`     | Your secret key for Stack Auth. Found in the Stack dashboard.                |

### 4. Push Database Schema

This command will sync your Drizzle schema with your Neon database.

```bash
npx drizzle-kit migrate
```

### 5. Create Project Permissions

Head over to Auth tab in the Neon and claim the project with your Stack Auth account.   
1. Log in to the Neon Console at console.neon.tech.
2. Navigate to your Project: Select the specific project you want to claim.
3. Access the Auth Settings: In the project's dashboard sidebar, click on the Auth tab, then select the Configuration tab.
4. Initiate the Claim Process: Look for a section titled Claim project (or similar) and click the associated button or link, such as Claim project or Transfer ownership.
5. Follow the Prompts: Neon will prompt you to select the Stack Auth account that will receive ownership of the project. Follow the on-screen instructions to complete the transfer.
6. Verify in Stack Auth Dashboard: After claiming, you will have direct access to manage your project in the Stack Auth dashboard

Transfer project button is here https://console.neon.tech/app/projects/square-waterfall-33326737/settings  
By API: https://api-docs.neon.tech/reference/transferneonauthproviderproject  
Follow this article, successfully claimed  
https://neon.com/docs/workflows/claimable-database-integration


From there, create 2 new project roles, `admin` and `user`, where `user` is contained within `admin`.

1. Navigate to the Neon Console: Log in to your Neon Console.
2. Select a Project: Choose the project you want to manage.
3. Select Branch: In the sidebar, select Branches, then select the specific branch where you want to create the role.
4. Add Role: Go to the Roles & Databases tab and click Add role.
5. Name the Role: Specify a name for the new role in the modal window.
6. Create Role: Click Create. Neon will generate a password for the role; be sure to copy and save this password securely, as it is only shown once.
7. 


### 6. Run the Development Server

```bash
npm run dev
```

The application will be available at `http://localhost:3000`

Since you're the first user ever of that project, head over to `http://localhost:3000/setup` after signing in to claim your admin priviliges.

## Deploying to Vercel

### Create Vercel Project

Add your newly created repo as a Vercel project, copy over all the values from your `.env` into the envinronment variables section, and deploy your app.

### Update Stack Auth domains

For the Stack Auth to work outside of localhost, add the domain Vercel gave you to the trusted domains in the `Domains` section of Stack dashboard.

And you're done. You have a hosted and secured internal tool dashboard and a Postgres database completly for free now!
